So I talked a lot about cross site scripting attacks but this is an important and very dangerous attack
pattern.
There also is another way of launching cross site scripting attacks which is also important to be aware of
and to keep in mind.
Let's say you fixed all your holes in your code by either using text content or in places where you
need to render HTML code by using sanitize-html or something comparable.
Now you still might be vulnerable to cross site scripting attacks and do you have any idea where they
might be coming from?
How could someone still get Javascript code into your page which then executes when users load your
page?
Let's say you fixed all these holes where you output user generated content which is the number one
hole, well how about third-party packages? In this project,
I'm using the Google Maps Javascript SDK for example, I do have this import here
and what this does is it downloads a script written by a team at Google which then also of course runs
on the machines of my users,
Any third-party Javascript package you add to your project executes code when your app runs because
you use the code of that package,
in the case of Google Maps, we use it in the map.js file There we use that new Google Maps map thing,
where do you think is this coming from? It's coming from the Google Maps Javascript SDK,
so it is based on the Javascript code we import from Google's servers.
So we trust Google that the code is secure because if it weren't,
since this runs on the machines of our users, this of course would also be able to execute malicious
code there.
So when adding third-party libraries, you want to make sure that it's from parties whom you trust,
for example Google is quite trustworthy of course but you also of course need to be sure or very sure
at least that these companies or library authors protect themselves against being compromised.
You might trust Google but if someone gets access to this code on their servers which sounds unlikely
but if this is done by a frustrated Google engineer let's say, then this person can of course rewrite
this code which you import such that it still works but that in addition to working, it does something
malicious.
So third-party libraries of course also can be hacked and if they are, the malicious code that's injected
into the library runs in your app and on the machines of your users.
So you need to be sure that the libraries you're using are secure, that they're trustworthy and that
they are also defending against being hacked.
So you want to make sure you're working with third-party libraries which are actively maintained so
that security holes in the libraries are fixed but at the same time, where contributions which in the
case of open source libraries which most libraries are can be made by anyone, that contributions are
checked.
Of course you can check the source code of the third-party library as well
and if it's a relatively straightforward simple library, it might be worth scanning over that code and
looking for anything strange.
Does it try to access browser storage?
Does it try to send HttpRequests even though it's a library that shouldn't do that?
Have a look at that and analyze that code.
It might sound dumb but this is a potential security issue, so you want to make sure you protect yourself
against it.
If you install something through npm, you also get a little hint.
If I run npm install here to install all the third-party packages we're executing here, you'll see that once
this is done, we get a little output here,
all these packages and found zero vulnerabilities. Not every vulnerability it finds here
is an issue though and for some projects, it will find quite a lot of vulnerabilities.
It just means that there are potential security holes which might also not be related to the code which
is output to your users
but all these build tools which run on your machine and only on your machine as a developer and therefore
might not be as dangerous but still, it just shows you that if there are vulnerabilities, you might want
to check the versions of packages you're using and consider updating.
Now again, you shouldn't freak out just because you find some vulnerabilities here because most packages
you use in modern projects only run on your machine
and of course this is also not what you want,
that you have a potential security hole there but at least you're not sharing this code with all users
of your web page, so therefore this might not matter as much
and a lot of vulnerabilities are really just that, a vulnerability, not necessarily one which is getting
abused at this point of time. Still having a green zero here is nice to have but even more important
is that any packages you use that end up in your code, like the Google Maps package here, that these packages
are also trustworthy and secure.
You never have 100% security but you should of course aim for as much security as possible.